Okay,
guys.
And welcome back now,
this somewhat we're gonna have a look at is recording a macro to give us the way to write a
formula.
So in this for me,
I'm just gonna put years from retirement equals And it is going to be 65 minus,
whatever their age is.
Now,
let's site.
So I'm just gonna hit enter near the simplest way to do this.
If you just have one calculation to do,
right,
the formula in excel recorder macro doesn't matter what you call it.
Be in the cell with formula hit F two to edit the formula and press enter,
then stop recording.
And then we're gonna was over to here.
That should be in There they go.
So here it is.
Active soldat formula.
I want to see one equal 65 equal quotes equal 65 minus R C.
Square brackets minus four.
Close square brackets,
close quotes.
Which is the code that I have in here,
which is incredibly confusing if you don't know what you're looking at,
what?
We're going to go through the step by step,
so I'm just gonna delete this in between execute in these lines of code.
So f eight that is our recorded macro.
So it is 65 minus G two on it is written as 65 minus R C square brackets minus one.
Square brackets close.
Okay,
But we have another option.
We could use the active cell dot Formula on that will say equals and literally it will say
exactly what it say's up here in Excel,
which makes it an awful lot easier to understand.
So I'm just gonna press f eight and move through that.
I'm just gonna delete this order here for a second.
We are on the active cell boom F eight.
There we go.
So you can see it's written g 65 minus due to which exactly what we wanted to do.
But here's the problem with doing that.
And this is only true for single cells.
As far as I can tell,
you'll notice that we use in the active cell dot formula.
If I clicked in here,
we'll hear any of these active cells.
So notice No,
I Monroe seven.
I'm just gonna Romney's I was a second.
Brem Brem on.
This is a one way on f eight f eight.
Notice what happens here.
Active self formula,
and it's still say is 65 to G two on.
We no longer wanted to look at G two.
We wanted to look at G seven,
so that only works if you are on the line that you need to be on.
Okay,
Now there is a way around that on that is by filling into an entire range all at once.
But we're gonna come to that in the next lecture.
Okay,
So I'm just gonna hit Stop again.
Eso This works for populating a formula in plain old Excel Speak.
If you are on the correct line when you rise it Now let me in fact,
I'm just gonna run That was,
well know,
so we can get down to the next one Now this is active,
sold up formula are one C one,
which is the recorded version.
But what we have is equals equals 65 minus are to see seven on what that means is row two,
column seven.
So are one C one,
which is the style would be Row one column one,
which is a one.
So our two row two column seven is the equivalent of writing absolute G absolute too.
So if you just have our and a number and see on a number,
it is essentially an absolute ID sell reference.
So I'm just going to click.
I'm just gonna clear these.
Have some was gonna click in here that will execute that line of code eight.
And you can see that although it's written,
are to see two.
When we actually write the formula,
it's being converted to,
say absolute G absolute to OK,
so don't worry yet.
See easier on here that this is the most complicated method of all.
This is what Excel actually does.
When you record a macro on what this formula does again,
we're in our one C one mode.
But if there are square brackets after the are or square brackets after the see you are
moving relative to where you are,
so are active.
Cell is currently H two,
so this will say equals 65 minus are no numbers,
which means we're staying on exactly the same road C minus one,
which means we are looking one column to the left.
If we wanted to look to the right,
it would say,
see one moving to the left minus one.
So when I hit enter or when I pressed their fight,
you can see that that happens.
There we get 65 minus G two,
which which is exactly what this says.
Then the benefit of this is because it's relative and it's always gonna look one column to
the left.
We could happily Let's just stop that and ram this out.
We can happily book that here on F eight and you'll notice that it now says G six because
we're on G six because we have this relative cell reference in here.
Okay,
so far,
so good on.
Do you may be able to puzzle your way through that If if you're frightfully intelligent,
I'm not.
But imagine if we were doing a logical test.
I'm just gonna right quick,
logical test in here for a second on.
Then we're going to recall that and see what it looks like.
So I'll be back in just a second.
Okay,
now,
this is just quick logical test.
Always gonna do we say have a look and be too.
If it saves male,
then my calculation is going to be 65 minus two to if it doesn't say 60 minus g two.
I'm just gonna hide that hair color again.
Andi at home unharmed.
The so I could see what I was doing.
Hide.
Okay,
so it's just recalled that and see what that looks like.
So I'm just gonna hit record macro and sad.
I don't care which called Hit f.
Took some already in the cell.
Enter and stop recording Macron.
Let's go and have a look at that code.
Well,
there you have it.
If if you can understand that simply when you look at it,
you're a better man than I right now,
in the next lecture,
we're gonna have a look at populating an entire range of data with same formula on.
It's much simpler than that.
Population it for a single formula.
You'll see.
In a few seconds.
I'll see you that